---
layout:     post
title:      “CS61A 学习记录”
subtitle:    "computer = powerful + stupid"
date:       2019-03-11
author:     Chris
header-img: img/post-bg-2015.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - Computer Science
---

An expression describes a computation and evaluates to a value.

All expressions can use function call notation.

Operators and operands are also expressions, so they evaluate to values.

**Evaluation procedure for call expressions:**

1. Evaluate the operator and then the operand subexpressions.

2. Apply the function that is the value of the operator subexpression to
the arguments that are the values of the operand subexpression.

**Execution rule for assignment statements:**

1. Evaluate all expressions to the right of = from left to right.

2. Bind all names to the left of = to those resulting values in the current frame.

Assignment is a simple means of abstraction: binds names to values;

Function definition is a more powerful means of abstraction: binds names to expressions.

With multiple assignment, all expressions to the right of = are evaluated before any names to the left are bound to those values.

A numeral evaluates to the number it names.

A name evaluates to the value associated with that name in the current environment.

In general, statements are not evaluated but executed; they do not produce a value but instead make some change. Each type of expression or statement has its own evaluation or execution procedure.

Statements themselves are not expressions, although they contain expressions as components.

Each statement describes some change to the interpreter state, and executing a statement applies that change.

Statements govern the relationship among different expressions in a program and what happens to their results.

* Pure functions:  Functions have some input (their arguments) and return some output (the result of applying them). Pure functions have the property that applying them has no effects beyond returning a value. Moreover, a pure function must always return the same value when called twice with the same arguments.

* Non-pure functions: In addition to returning a value, applying a non-pure function can generate side effects, which make some change to the state of the interpreter or computer. A common side effect is to generate additional output beyond the return value.

**Execution procedure for def statements:**

1. Create a function with signature <name>(<formal parameters>).

2. Set the body of that function to be everything indented after the first line.

3. Bind <name> to that function in the current frame.
    
Both def statements and assignment statements bind names to values, and any existing bindings are lost. 

An environment in which an expression is evaluated consists of a sequence of frames, depicted as boxes. Each frame contains bindings, each of which associates a name with its corresponding value. There is a single global frame. Assignment and import statements add entries to the first frame of the current environment.

Every expression is evaluated in the context of an environment.

An environment is a sequence of frames.

A name evaluates to the value bound to that name in the earliest frame of the current environment in which that name is found.


**Procedure for calling/applying user-defined functions (version 1):**

1. Add a local frame, forming a new environment.

2. Bind the function's formal parameters to its arguments in that local frame.

3. Execute the body of the function in that new environment.

The environment in which the body is evaluated consists of two frames: first the local frame that contains formal parameter bindings, then the global frame that contains everything else. Each instance of a function application has its own independent local frame.

A function’s signature has all the information needed to create a local frame.

**Compound Statements**

```
<header>:
    <statement>
    <statement>
    ...
<separating header>:
    <statement>
    <statement>
    ...
...
```

The header controls its suite.

Expressions, return statements, and assignment statements are simple statements.
A def statement is a compound statement. The suite that follows the def header defines the function body.

To execute a sequence of statements, execute the first statement. If that statement does not redirect control, then proceed to execute the rest of the sequence of statements, if any remain.

A return statement redirects control: the process of function application terminates whenever the first return statement is executed, and the value of the return expression is the returned value of the function being applied.

Logical expressions have corresponding evaluation procedures. These procedures exploit the fact that the truth value of a logical expression can sometimes be determined without evaluating all of its subexpressions, a feature called short-circuiting.

**Nested Functions**

This discipline of sharing names among nested definitions is called lexical scoping. Critically, the inner functions have access to the names in the environment where they are defined (not where they are called).

We require two extensions to our environment model to enable lexical scoping.

1. Each user-defined function has a parent environment: the environment in which it was defined.

2. When a user-defined function is called, its local frame extends its parent environment.

The parent of a function value is the first frame of the environment in which that function was defined. 

An environment can consist of an arbitrarily long chain of frames, which always concludes with the global frame.

Two key advantages of lexical scoping in Python:

1. The names of a local function do not interfere with names external to the function in which it is defined, because the local function name will be bound in the current local environment in which it was defined, rather than the global environment.

2. A local function can access the environment of the enclosing function, because the body of the local function is evaluated in an environment that extends the evaluation environment in which it was defined.
